# TDI_Project
The rate of incarceration in our society has sky rocketed in recent decades. Currently there is strong evidence that this rate has increased more amongst African American and Hispanic males than any other demographic group. There exists a very charged and sometimes vitriolic public debate on whether this incarceration rate is a product of or driver of socio-economic and racial bias in our society. I found a data set tracking 275 thousand pre-trial inmates, this year, in my current home state of Connecticut. I believe this is the perfect data set to examine the criminal justice system without outside influences. This accused pre-trial inmate data tracks every inmate’s race, gender, alleged crime, age, courthouse of arraignment, and the dollar amount of their bond. With this data set I propose to examine racial bias in the amount of bond at a systemic statewide and courthouse level while controlling both for age and gender as well as offense.  When controlling for these variables it will allow me to examine how the criminal justice sees these offenders based primarily on their race, as a function of how high the bond is set. The primary analysis focuses on weather or not judges in the state of Connecticut consciously or subconsciously use the race of the accused party in assessing the bond amount of an alleged offender.  This project also closely resembles what interests me most in data science as it uses data generated by our society, yields crucial insight, and empowers us to better our community.  
